[docs][sdk-53] Add docs section for ES Modules Resolution (`package.json:exports`) to `metro.config.js` page (#36458)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/config/metro.mdx

Many React libraries shipped the Webpack `/* webpackIgnore: true */` comment to achieve similar behavior. To bridge the gap, we've also added support for Webpack's comment but recommend using the Metro equivalent in your app.

> ## ES Module Resolution

Author: Ah, cheers! Yea, I suspected as much, but didn't want to touch it just yet in case I assumed wrong. I'll copy it over once we all agree on the content here

> ## ES Module Resolution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## ES Module resolution
```

As per our writing style guide, we prefer sentence case instead of title case for section titles.

> This sections applies from SDK 53 on all platforms.

> Metro resolves ES Module imports and CommonJS requires with separate resolution strategies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Metro resolves ES Module `import` and CommonJS `require` with separate resolution strategies.
```

to make it just slightly more clear

> The classic Node.js module resolution is the strategy that Metro used to apply with some additions to support ES Modules. In this resolution strategy, which matches Node.js versions before v12, Metro resolves modules from `node_modules`, JS files, optionally while omitting extensions, such as `.js`, and uses `package.json` fields such as `main`, `module`, and `react-native`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, Metro applied the classic Node.js module resolution strategy (which matches Node.js versions before v12), with some additions to support ES Modules. In this resolution strategy, Metro resolves modules from `node_modules`, JS files, optionally while omitting extensions, such as `.js`, and uses `package.json` fields such as `main`, `module`, and `react-native`.
```

> In the modern ES Modules resolution strategy, Metro instead resolves modules from `node_modules`, then matches different `package.json` fields, such as `exports`, [a nested map of sub-paths a package exposes](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#conditional-exports), and `main`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, with the modern ES Modules resolution strategy, Metro instead resolves modules from `node_modules`, then matches different `package.json` fields, such as `exports`, [a nested map of sub-paths a package exposes](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#conditional-exports), and `main`.
```

> Depending on how a package is imported, one of these two resolution strategies will be used. Typically, a file that _imports_ from a Node module, will use the ES Modules resolution strategy, and fall back on regular classic Node.js resolution, but a file that wasn't resolved with ES Modules resolution or has been required with CommonJS resolution, will use the classic resolution strategy.

Reviewer 3: the fallback here is not clear. i guess it means the package doesn't have the `package.json:exports`, then metro will fallback to use CJS resolutions (file lookup). would be good to describe what's the fallback is

Author: I wish I could :sweat_smile: I'm currently not 100% sure how the fallback works. It might be trying to first use `package.json:exports` with different conditions on a new run, or it might fully fall back to classic resolution.

It's probably the latter, hence the docs saying:
> and fall back on regular classic Node.js resolution

As per the explanation two paragraphs above, that should be accurate-ish

> Depending on how a package is imported, one of these two resolution strategies will be used. Typically, a file that _imports_ from a Node module, will use the ES Modules resolution strategy, and fall back on regular classic Node.js resolution, but a file that wasn't resolved with ES Modules resolution or has been required with CommonJS resolution, will use the classic resolution strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Depending on how a package is imported, one of these two resolution strategies will be used. Typically, a file that is imported with `import` from a Node module (rather than `require`), will use the ES Modules resolution strategy, and fall back on regular classic Node.js resolution. A file that wasn't resolved with ES Modules resolution or has been imported with CommonJS `require` will use the classic resolution strategy.
```

tried to adjust this for clarity, lmk if this is correct or not

### `package.json:exports`

When performing ES Modules resolution, Metro will look at the `package.json:exports` conditions map. This is a mapping of import subpaths and conditions to files in the Node module package.

> For example, a package that always exposes an `index.js` file, and matches Metro's classic CommonJS module resolution, may specify a map with the `default` condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a package that always exposes an **index.js** file, and matches Metro's classic CommonJS module resolution, may specify a map with the `default` condition.
```

As per the writing style guide, we prefer to file names as bold text for consistency.

```json
{
  "exports": {
    "default": "./index.js"
  }
}
```

> However, a package providing both a CommonJS and ES Modules entrypoint may provide a mapping with the `import` and `require`
> conditons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, a package providing both a CommonJS and ES Modules entrypoint may provide a mapping with the `import` and `require` conditions.
```

Typo and formatting issue.

```json
{
  "exports": {
    "import": "./index.mjs",
    "require": "./index.cjs"
  }
}
```

By default, Metro will match different conditions depending on the platform and whether the resolution has started from a CommonJS `require` call, or an ES Modules `import` statement and will change the condition accordingly.

> For native platforms, the condition `react-native` is added, for Web exports, the `browser` condition is added, and for server exports (such as API routes or React Server functions), the `node`, `react-srever`, and `workerd` conditions are added. These conditions aren't matched in the order they're defined in. Instead, they're matched against the order of properties in the `package.json:exports` map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For native platforms, the condition `react-native` is added, for web exports, the `browser` condition is added, and for server exports (such as API routes or React Server functions), the `node`, `react-server`, and `workerd` conditions are added. These conditions aren't matched in the order they're defined in. Instead, they're matched against the order of properties in the `package.json:exports` map.
```

TypeScript performs ES Module resolution separately from Metro and will also respect `package.json:exports` maps, when its `compilerOptions.moduleResolution` configuration option has either been set to `"bundler"` (which matches Metro's behaviour more closely) or to `"node16"` / `"nodenext"`. TypeScript will however also match the `types` condition. As such, types may not resolve properly when a package doesn't put the `types` condition first in its exports map.

> Since an exports map may contain subpaths, a package import may not have to match a file in the package's modules folder any longer, but may be a "redirected" import. Importing `'package/submodule'` may match a different file than `node_modules/package/submodule.js` if it's specified in `package.json:exports`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since an exports map may contain subpaths, a package import may not have to match a file in the package's modules folder any longer, but may be a "redirected" import. Importing `'package/submodule'` may match a different file than **node_modules/package/submodule.js** if it's specified in `package.json:exports`.
```

```json
{
  "exports": {
    ".": "./index.js",
    "./submodule": "./submodule/submodule.js"
  }
}
```

> If you're encountering packages that are incompatible or unprepared for the new ES Modules resolution strategy, you may be able to resolve problems by patching its `package.json` file and add or correct its `package.json:exports` conditions map. However, it's also possible to prevent Metro from using `package.json:exports` maps in its resolution by disabling the `unstable_enablePackageExports` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're encountering packages that are incompatible or unprepared for the new ES Modules resolution strategy, you may be able to resolve problems by [patching its `package.json` file](https://www.npmjs.com/package/patch-package) and add or correct its `package.json:exports` conditions map. However, it's also possible to prevent Metro from using `package.json:exports` maps in its resolution by disabling the `unstable_enablePackageExports` option.
```

> If you're encountering packages that are incompatible or unprepared for the new ES Modules resolution strategy, you may be able to resolve problems by patching its `package.json` file and add or correct its `package.json:exports` conditions map. However, it's also possible to prevent Metro from using `package.json:exports` maps in its resolution by disabling the `unstable_enablePackageExports` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're encountering packages that are incompatible or unprepared for the new ES Modules resolution strategy, you may be able to resolve problems by patching its **package.json** file and add or correct its `package.json:exports` conditions map. However, it's also possible to prevent Metro from using `package.json:exports` maps in its resolution by disabling the `unstable_enablePackageExports` option.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: might be worth to share some error examples that people may encounter from the unstable_enablePackageExports breaking change, so people can disable `unstable_enablePackageExports` after looking into the doc.
for example, the supabase error https://github.com/supabase/realtime-js/issues/415
